1. Introduction — PTX ISA 9.3 documentation
https://docs.nvidia.com/cuda/parallel-thread-execution/index.html#instruction-set

<!DOCTYPE html>

1. Introduction — PTX ISA 9.3 documentation

»

1. Introduction

v9.3 |

PDF

|

Archive

 

Parallel Thread Execution ISA Version 9.3

The programming guide to using PTX (Parallel Thread Execution) and ISA (Instruction Set Architecture).

1. Introduction

This document describes PTX, a low-level parallel thread execution virtual machine and instruction
set architecture (ISA). PTX exposes the GPU as a data-parallel computing device.

1.1. Scalable Data-Parallel Computing using GPUs

Driven by the insatiable market demand for real-time, high-definition 3D graphics, the programmable
GPU has evolved into a highly parallel, multithreaded, many-core processor with tremendous
computational horsepower and very high memory bandwidth. The GPU is especially well-suited to
address problems that can be expressed as data-parallel computations - the same program is executed
on many data elements in parallel - with high arithmetic intensity - the ratio of arithmetic
operations to memory operations. Because the same program is executed for each data element, there
is a lower requirement for sophisticated flow control; and because it is executed on many data
elements and has high arithmetic intensity, the memory access latency can be hidden with
calculations instead of big data caches.

Data-parallel processing maps data elements to parallel processing threads. Many applications that
process large data sets can use a data-parallel programming model to speed up the computations. In
3D rendering large sets of pixels and vertices are mapped to parallel threads. Similarly, image and
media processing applications such as post-processing of rendered images, video encoding and
decoding, image scaling, stereo vision, and pattern recognition can map image blocks and pixels to
parallel processing threads. In fact, many algorithms outside the field of image rendering and
processing are accelerated by data-parallel processing, from general signal processing or physics
simulation to computational finance or computational biology.

PTX defines a virtual machine and ISA for general purpose parallel thread execution. PTX programs
are translated at install time to the target hardware instruction set. The PTX-to-GPU translator
and driver enable NVIDIA GPUs to be used as programmable parallel computers.

1.2. Goals of PTX

PTX provides a stable programming model and instruction set for general purpose parallel
programming. It is designed to be efficient on NVIDIA GPUs supporting the computation features
defined by the NVIDIA Tesla architecture. High level language compilers for languages such as CUDA
and C/C++ generate PTX instructions, which are optimized for and translated to native
target-architecture instructions.

The goals for PTX include the following:

Provide a stable ISA that spans multiple GPU generations.

Achieve performance in compiled applications comparable to native GPU performance.

Provide a machine-independent ISA for C/C++ and other compilers to target.

Provide a code distribution ISA for application and middleware developers.

Provide a common source-level ISA for optimizing code generators and translators, which map PTX to
specific target machines.

Facilitate hand-coding of libraries, performance kernels, and architecture tests.

Provide a scalable programming model that spans GPU sizes from a single unit to many parallel units.

1.3. PTX ISA Version 9.3

PTX ISA version 9.3 introduces the following new features:

Adds support for mma_throughput pragma.

Adds support for clmad instruction.

Adds support for .phase_type::* qualifier for mbarrier.test_wait and mbarrier.try_wait instructions.

Adds support for reportPredicate and reportValue operands for mbarrier.test_wait and mbarrier.try_wait instructions.

Adds support for .layout qualifier for mbarrier instructions and support for mbarrier.check_layout instruction.

Adds support for multimem.st.async and multimem.red.async instructions.

Adds support for .sem and .scope qualifiers for cp.async.bulk, cp.reduce.async.bulk,
multimem.cp.async.bulk and multimem.cp.reduce.async.bulk instructions.

Adds support for fabric.try_get, fabric.try_put, fabric.try_red, fabric.try_pullred,
fabric.wait, fabric.submit instructions.

Adds support for fence.proxy.to_proxykind::from_proxykind_fabric qualifier for fence instruction.

Adds support for .language directive.

1.4. Document Structure

The information in this document is organized into the following Chapters:

Programming Model outlines the programming model.

PTX Machine Model gives an overview of the PTX virtual machine model.

Syntax describes the basic syntax of the PTX language.

State Spaces, Types, and Variables describes
state spaces, types, and variable declarations.

Instruction Operands describes instruction operands.

Abstracting the ABI describes the function and call syntax,
calling convention, and PTX support for abstracting the Application Binary Interface (ABI).

Instruction Set describes the instruction set.

Special Registers lists special registers.

Directives lists the assembly directives supported in PTX.

Release Notes provides release notes for PTX ISA versions 2.x and
beyond.

References

754-2008 IEEE Standard for Floating-Point Arithmetic. ISBN 978-0-7381-5752-8, 2008.

http://ieeexplore.ieee.org/servlet/opac?punumber=4610933

The OpenCL Specification, Version: 1.1, Document Revision: 44, June 1, 2011.

http://www.khronos.org/registry/cl/specs/opencl-1.1.pdf

CUDA Programming Guide.

https://docs.nvidia.com/cuda/cuda-programming-guide/index.html

CUDA Dynamic Parallelism Programming Guide.

https://docs.nvidia.com/cuda/cuda-programming-guide/04-special-topics/dynamic-parallelism.html

CUDA Atomicity Requirements.

https://nvidia.github.io/cccl/libcudacxx/extended_api/memory_model.html#atomicity

PTX Writers Guide to Interoperability.

https://docs.nvidia.com/cuda/ptx-writers-guide-to-interoperability/index.html

2. Programming Model

2.1. A Highly Multithreaded Coprocessor

The GPU is a compute device capable of executing a very large number of threads in parallel. It
operates as a coprocessor to the main CPU, or host: In other words, data-parallel, compute-intensive
portions of applications running on the host are off-loaded onto the device.

More precisely, a portion of an application that is executed many times, but independently on
different data, can be isolated into a kernel function that is executed on the GPU as many different
threads. To that effect, such a function is compiled to the PTX instruction set and the resulting
kernel is translated at install time to the target GPU instruction set.

2.2. Thread Hierarchy

The batch of threads that executes a kernel is organized as a grid. A grid consists of either
cooperative thread arrays or clusters of cooperative thread arrays as described in this section and
illustrated in Figure 1 and
Figure 2. Cooperative thread arrays (CTAs) implement CUDA
thread blocks and clusters implement CUDA thread block clusters.

2.2.1. Cooperative Thread Arrays

The Parallel Thread Execution (PTX) programming model is explicitly parallel: a PTX program
specifies the execution of a given thread of a parallel thread array. A cooperative thread array,
or CTA, is an array of threads that execute a kernel concurrently or in parallel.

Threads within a CTA can communicate with each other. To coordinate the communication of the threads
within the CTA, one can specify synchronization points where threads wait until all threads in the
CTA have arrived.

Each thread has a unique thread identifier within the CTA. Programs use a data parallel
decomposition to partition inputs, work, and results across the threads of the CTA. Each CTA thread
uses its thread identifier to determine its assigned role, assign specific input and output
positions, compute addresses, and select work to perform. The thread identifier is a three-element
vector tid, (with elements tid.x, tid.y, and tid.z) that specifies the thread’s
position within a 1D, 2D, or 3D CTA. Each thread identifier component ranges from zero up to the
number of thread ids in that CTA dimension.

Each CTA has a 1D, 2D, or 3D shape specified by a three-element vector ntid (with elements
ntid.x, ntid.y, and ntid.z). The vector ntid specifies the number of threads in each
CTA dimension.

Threads within a CTA execute in SIMT (single-instruction, multiple-thread) fashion in groups called
warps. A warp is a maximal subset of threads from a single CTA, such that the threads execute
the same instructions at the same time. Threads within a warp are sequentially numbered. The warp
size is a machine-dependent constant. Typically, a warp has 32 threads. Some applications may be
able to maximize performance with knowledge of the warp size, so PTX includes a run-time immediate
constant, WARP_SZ, which may be used in any instruction where an immediate operand is allowed.

2.2.2. Cluster of Cooperative Thread Arrays

Cluster is a group of CTAs that run concurrently or in parallel and can synchronize and communicate
with each other via shared memory. The executing CTA has to make sure that the shared memory of the
peer CTA exists before communicating with it via shared memory and the peer CTA hasn’t exited before
completing the shared memory operation.

Threads within the different CTAs in a cluster can synchronize and communicate with each other via
shared memory. Cluster-wide barriers can be used to synchronize all the threads within the
cluster. Each CTA in a cluster has a unique CTA identifier within its cluster
(cluster_ctaid). Each cluster of CTAs has 1D, 2D or 3D shape specified by the parameter
cluster_nctaid. Each CTA in the cluster also has a unique CTA identifier (cluster_ctarank)
across all dimensions. The total number of CTAs across all the dimensions in the cluster is
specified by cluster_nctarank. Threads may read and use these values through predefined, read-only
special registers %cluster_ctaid, %cluster_nctaid, %cluster_ctarank,
%cluster_nctarank.

Cluster level is applicable only on target architecture sm_90 or higher. Specifying cluster
level during launch time is optional. If the user specifies the cluster dimensions at launch time
then it will be treated as explicit cluster launch, otherwise it will be treated as implicit cluster
launch with default dimension 1x1x1. PTX provides read-only special register
%is_explicit_cluster to differentiate between explicit and implicit cluster launch.

2.2.3. Grid of Clusters

There is a maximum number of threads that a CTA can contain and a maximum number of CTAs that a
cluster can contain. However, clusters with CTAs that execute the same kernel can be batched
together into a grid of clusters, so that the total number of threads that can be launched in a
single kernel invocation is very large. This comes at the expense of reduced thread communication
and synchronization, because threads in different clusters cannot communicate and synchronize with
each other.

Each cluster has a unique cluster identifier (clusterid) within a grid of clusters. Each grid of
clusters has a 1D, 2D , or 3D shape specified by the parameter nclusterid. Each grid also has a
unique temporal grid identifier (gridid). Threads may read and use these values through
predefined, read-only special registers %tid, %ntid, %clusterid, %nclusterid, and
%gridid.

Each CTA has a unique identifier (ctaid) within a grid. Each grid of CTAs has 1D, 2D, or 3D shape
specified by the parameter nctaid. Thread may use and read these values through predefined,
read-only special registers %ctaid and %nctaid.

Each kernel is executed as a batch of threads organized as a grid of clusters consisting of CTAs
where cluster is optional level and is applicable only for target architectures sm_90 and
higher. Figure 1 shows a grid consisting of CTAs and
Figure 2 shows a grid consisting of clusters.

Grids may be launched with dependencies between one another - a grid may be a dependent grid and/or
a prerequisite grid. To understand how grid dependencies may be defined, refer to the section on
CUDA Graphs in the Cuda Programming Guide.

Figure 1 Grid with CTAs

Figure 2 Grid with clusters

A cluster is a set of cooperative thread arrays (CTAs) where a CTA is a set of concurrent threads
that execute the same kernel program. A grid is a set of clusters consisting of CTAs that
execute independently.

2.3. Memory Hierarchy

PTX threads may access data from multiple state spaces during their execution as illustrated by
Figure 3 where cluster level is introduced from
target architecture sm_90 onwards. Each thread has a private local memory. Each thread block
(CTA) has a shared memory visible to all threads of the block and to all active blocks in the
cluster and with the same lifetime as the block. Finally, all threads have access to the same global
memory.

There are additional state spaces accessible by all threads: the constant, param, texture, and
surface state spaces. Constant and texture memory are read-only; surface memory is readable and
writable. The global, constant, param, texture, and surface state spaces are optimized for different
memory usages. For example, texture memory offers different addressing modes as well as data
filtering for specific data formats. Note that texture and surface memory is cached, and within the
same kernel call, the cache is not kept coherent with respect to global memory writes and surface
memory writes, so any texture fetch or surface read to an address that has been written to via a
global or a surface write in the same kernel call returns undefined data. In other words, a thread
can safely read some texture or surface memory location only if this memory location has been
updated by a previous kernel call or memory copy, but not if it has been previously updated by the
same thread or another thread from the same kernel call.

The global, constant, and texture state spaces are persistent across kernel launches by the same
application.

Both the host and the device maintain their own local memory, referred to as host memory and
device memory, respectively. The device memory may be mapped and read or written by the host, or,
for more efficient transfer, copied from the host memory through optimized API calls that utilize
the device’s high-performance Direct Memory Access (DMA) engine.

Figure 3 Memory Hierarchy

3. PTX Machine Model

3.1. A Set of SIMT Multiprocessors

The NVIDIA GPU architecture is built around a scalable array of multithreaded Streaming
Multiprocessors (SMs). When a host program invokes a kernel grid, the blocks of the grid are
enumerated and distributed to multiprocessors with available execution capacity. The threads of a
thread block execute concurrently on one multiprocessor. As thread blocks terminate, new blocks are
launched on the vacated multiprocessors.

A multiprocessor consists of multiple Scalar Processor (SP) cores, a multithreaded instruction
unit, and on-chip shared memory. The multiprocessor creates, manages, and executes concurrent
threads in hardware with zero scheduling overhead. It implements a single-instruction barrier
synchronization. Fast barrier synchronization together with lightweight thread creation and
zero-overhead thread scheduling efficiently support very fine-grained parallelism, allowing, for
example, a low granularity decomposition of problems by assigning one thread to each data element
(such as a pixel in an image, a voxel in a volume, a cell in a grid-based computation).

To manage hundreds of threads running several different programs, the multiprocessor employs an
architecture we call SIMT (single-instruction, multiple-thread). The multiprocessor maps each
thread to one scalar processor core, and each scalar thread executes independently with its own
instruction address and register state. The multiprocessor SIMT unit creates, manages, schedules,
and executes threads in groups of parallel threads called warps. (This term originates from
weaving, the first parallel thread technology.) Individual threads composing a SIMT warp start
together at the same program address but are otherwise free to branch and execute independently.

When a multiprocessor is given one or more thread blocks to execute, it splits them into warps that
get scheduled by the SIMT unit. The way a block is split into warps is always the same; each warp
contains threads of consecutive, increasing thread IDs with the first warp containing thread 0.

At every instruction issue time, the SIMT unit selects a warp that is ready to execute and issues
the next instruction to the active threads of the warp. A warp executes one common instruction at a
time, so full efficiency is realized when all threads of a warp agree on their execution path. If
threads of a warp diverge via a data-dependent conditional branch, the warp serially executes each
branch path taken, disabling threads that are not on that path, and when all paths complete, the
threads converge back to the same execution path. Branch divergence occurs only within a warp;
different warps execute independently regardless of whether they are executing common or disjointed
code paths.

SIMT architecture is akin to SIMD (Single Instruction, Multiple Data) vector organizations in that a
single instruction controls multiple processing elements. A key difference is that SIMD vector
organizations expose the SIMD width to the software, whereas SIMT instructions specify the execution
and branching behavior of a single thread. In contrast with SIMD vector machines, SIMT enables
programmers to write thread-level parallel code for independent, scalar threads, as well as
data-parallel code for coordinated threads. For the purposes of correctness, the programmer can
essentially ignore the SIMT behavior; however, substantial performance improvements can be realized
by taking care that the code seldom requires threads in a warp to diverge. In practice, this is
analogous to the role of cache lines in traditional code: Cache line size can be safely ignored when
designing for correctness but must be considered in the code structure when designing for peak
performance. Vector architectures, on the other hand, require the software to coalesce loads into
vectors and manage divergence manually.

How many blocks a multiprocessor can process at once depends on how many registers per thread and
how much shared memory per block are required for a given kernel since the multiprocessor’s
registers and shared memory are split among all the threads of the batch of blocks. If there are not
enough registers or shared memory available per multiprocessor to process at least one block, the
kernel will fail to launch.

Figure 4 Hardware Model

A set of SIMT multiprocessors with on-chip shared memory.

3.2. Independent Thread Scheduling

On architectures prior to Volta, warps used a single program counter shared amongst all 32 threads
in the warp together with an active mask specifying the active threads of the warp. As a result,
threads from the same warp in divergent regions or different states of execution cannot signal each
other or exchange data, and algorithms requiring fine-grained sharing of data guarded by locks or
mutexes can easily lead to deadlock, depending on which warp the contending threads come from.

Starting with the Volta architecture, Independent Thread Scheduling allows full concurrency
between threads, regardless of warp. With Independent Thread Scheduling, the GPU maintains
execution state per thread, including a program counter and call stack, and can yield execution at a
per-thread granularity, either to make better use of execution resources or to allow one thread to
wait for data to be produced by another. A schedule optimizer determines how to group active threads
from the same warp together into SIMT units. This retains the high throughput of SIMT execution as
in prior NVIDIA GPUs, but with much more flexibility: threads can now diverge and reconverge at
sub-warp granularity.

Independent Thread Scheduling can lead to a rather different set of threads participating in the
executed code than intended if the developer made assumptions about warp-synchronicity of previous
hardware architectures. In particular, any warp-synchronous code (such as synchronization-free,
intra-warp reductions) should be revisited to ensure compatibility with Volta and beyond. See the
section on Compute Capability 7.x in the Cuda Programming Guide for further details.

3.3. On-chip Shared Memory

As illustrated by Figure 4, each multiprocessor has
on-chip memory of the four following types:

One set of local 32-bit registers per processor,

A parallel data cache or shared memory that is shared by all scalar processor cores and is where
the shared memory space resides,

A read-only constant cache that is shared by all scalar processor cores and speeds up reads from
the constant memory space, which is a read-only region of device memory,

A read-only texture cache that is shared by all scalar processor cores and speeds up reads from
the texture memory space, which is a read-only region of device memory; each multiprocessor
accesses the texture cache via a texture unit that implements the various addressing modes and
data filtering.

The local and global memory spaces are read-write regions of device memory.

4. Syntax

PTX programs are a collection of text source modules (files). PTX source modules have an
assembly-language style syntax with instruction operation codes and operands. Pseudo-operations
specify symbol and addressing management. The ptxas optimizing backend compiler optimizes and
assembles PTX source modules to produce corresponding binary object files.

4.1. Source Format

Source modules are ASCII text. Lines are separated by the newline character (\n).

All whitespace characters are equivalent; whitespace is ignored except for its use in separating
tokens in the language.

The C preprocessor cpp may be used to process PTX source modules. Lines beginning with # are
preprocessor directives. The following are common preprocessor directives:

#include, #define, #if, #ifdef, #else, #endif, #line, #file

C: A Reference Manual by Harbison and Steele provides a good description of the C preprocessor.

PTX is case sensitive and uses lowercase for keywords.

Each PTX module must begin with a .version directive specifying the PTX language version,
followed by a .target directive specifying the target architecture assumed. See
PTX Module Directives for a more information on these directives.

4.2. Comments

Comments in PTX follow C/C++ syntax, using non-nested /* and */ for comments that may span
multiple lines, and using // to begin a comment that extends up to the next newline character,
which terminates the current line. Comments cannot occur within character constants, string
literals, or within other comments.

Comments in PTX are treated as whitespace.

4.3. Statements

A PTX statement is either a directive or an instruction. Statements begin with an optional label and
end with a semicolon.

Examples

<span></span> .reg .b32 r1, r2;
.global .f32 array[N];

start: mov.b32 r1, %tid.x;
shl.b32 r1, r1, 2; // shift thread id by 2 bits
ld.global.b32 r2, array[r1]; // thread[tid] gets array[tid]
add.f32 r2, r2, 0.5; // add 1/2

4.3.1. Directive Statements

Directive keywords begin with a dot, so no conflict is possible with user-defined identifiers. The
directives in PTX are listed in Table 1 and
described in State Spaces, Types, and Variables
and Directives.

Table 1 PTX Directives

.address_size

.explicitcluster

.maxnreg

.section

.alias

.extern

.maxntid

.shared

.align

.file

.minnctapersm

.sreg

.branchtargets

.func

.noreturn

.target

.callprototype

.global

.param

.tex

.calltargets

.loc

.pragma

.version

.common

.local

.reg

.visible

.const

.maxclusterrank

.reqnctapercluster

.weak

.entry

.maxnctapersm

.reqntid

4.3.2. Instruction Statements

Instructions are formed from an instruction opcode followed by a comma-separated list of zero or
more operands, and terminated with a semicolon. Operands may be register variables, constant
expressions, address expressions, or label names. Instructions have an optional guard predicate
which controls conditional execution. The guard predicate follows the optional label and precedes
the opcode, and is written as @p, where p is a predicate register. The guard predicate may
be optionally negated, written as @!p.

The destination operand is first, followed by source operands.

Instruction keywords are listed in
Table 2. All instruction keywords are
reserved tokens in PTX.

Table 2 Reserved Instruction Keywords

abs

cvta

min

shfl

vadd

activemask

discard

mma

shl

vadd2

add

div

mov

shr

vadd4

addc

dp2a

movmatrix

sin

vavrg2

alloca

dp4a

mul

slct

vavrg4

and

elect

mul24

sqrt

vmad

applypriority

ex2

multimem

st

vmax

atom

exit

nanosleep

stackrestore

vmax2

bar

fence

neg

stacksave

vmax4

barrier

fma

not

stmatrix

vmin

bfe

fns

or

sub

vmin2

bfi

getctarank

pmevent

subc

vmin4

bfind

griddepcontrol

popc

suld

vote

bmsk

isspacep

prefetch

suq

vset

bra

istypep

prefetchu

sured

vset2

brev

ld

prmt

sust

vset4

brkpt

ldmatrix

rcp

szext

vshl

brx

ldu

red

tanh

vshr

call

lg2

redux

tcgen05

vsub

clmad

lop3

rem

tensormap

vsub2

clz

mad

ret

testp

vsub4

cnot

mad24

rsqrt

tex

wgmma

copysign

madc

sad

tld4

wmma

cos

mapa

selp

trap

xor

clusterlaunchcontrol

match

set

txq

cp

max

setmaxnreg

vabsdiff

createpolicy

mbarrier

setp

vabsdiff2

cvt

membar

shf

vabsdiff4

4.4. Identifiers

User-defined identifiers follow extended C++ rules: they either start with a letter followed by zero
or more letters, digits, underscore, or dollar characters; or they start with an underscore, dollar,
or percentage character followed by one or more letters, digits, underscore, or dollar characters:

<span></span>followsym: [a-zA-Z0-9_$]
identifier: [a-zA-Z]{followsym}* | {[_$%]{followsym}+

PTX does not specify a maximum length for identifiers and suggests that all implementations support
a minimum length of at least 1024 characters.

Many high-level languages such as C and C++ follow similar rules for identifier names, except that
the percentage sign is not allowed. PTX allows the percentage sign as the first character of an
identifier. The percentage sign can be used to avoid name conflicts, e.g., between user-defined
variable names and compiler-generated names.

PTX predefines one constant and a small number of special registers that begin with the percentage
sign, listed in Table 3.

Table 3 Predefined Identifiers

%aggr_smem_size

%dynamic_smem_size

%lanemask_gt

%reserved_smem_offset_begin

%clock

%envreg<32>

%lanemask_le

%reserved_smem_offset_cap

%clock64

%globaltimer

%lanemask_lt

%reserved_smem_offset_end

%cluster_ctaid

%globaltimer_hi

%nclusterid

%smid

%cluster_ctarank

%globaltimer_lo

%nctaid

%tid

%cluster_nctaid

%gridid

%nsmid

%total_smem_size

%cluster_nctarank

%is_explicit_cluster

%ntid

%warpid

%clusterid

%laneid

%nwarpid

WARP_SZ

%ctaid

%lanemask_eq

%pm0, ..., %pm7

%current_graph_exec

%lanemask_ge

%reserved_smem_offset_<2>

4.5. Constants

PTX supports integer and floating-point constants and constant expressions. These constants may be
used in data initialization and as operands to instructions. Type checking rules remain the same for
integer, floating-point, and bit-size types. For predicate-type data and instructions, integer
constants are allowed and are interpreted as in C, i.e., zero values are False and non-zero
values are True.

4.5.1. Integer Constants

Integer constants are 64-bits in size and are either signed or unsigned, i.e., every integer
constant has type .s64 or .u64. The signed/unsigned nature of an integer constant is needed
to correctly evaluate constant expressions containing operations such as division and ordered
comparisons, where the behavior of the operation depends on the operand types. When used in an
instruction or data initialization, each integer constant is converted to the appropriate size based
on the data or instruction type at its use.

Integer literals may be written in decimal, hexadecimal, octal, or binary notation. The syntax
follows that of C. Integer literals may be followed immediately by the letter U to indicate that
the literal is unsigned.

<span></span>hexadecimal literal: 0[xX]{hexdigit}+U?
octal literal: 0{octal digit}+U?
binary literal: 0[bB]{bit}+U?
decimal literal {nonzero-digit}{digit}*U?

Integer literals are non-negative and have a type determined by their magnitude and optional type
suffix as follows: literals are signed (.s64) unless the value cannot be fully represented in
.s64 or the unsigned suffix is specified, in which case the literal is unsigned (.u64).

The predefined integer constant WARP_SZ specifies the number of threads per warp for the target
platform; to date, all target architectures have a WARP_SZ value of 32.

4.5.2. Floating-Point Constants

Floating-point constants are represented as 64-bit double-precision values, and all floating-point
constant expressions are evaluated using 64-bit double precision arithmetic. The only exception is
the 32-bit hex notation for expressing an exact single-precision floating-point value; such values
retain their exact 32-bit single-precision value and may not be used in constant expressions. Each
64-bit floating-point constant is converted to the appropriate floating-point size based on the data
or instruction type at its use.

Floating-point literals may be written with an optional decimal point and an optional signed
exponent. Unlike C and C++, there is no suffix letter to specify size; literals are always
represented in 64-bit double-precision format.

PTX includes a second representation of floating-point constants for specifying the exact machine
representation using a hexadecimal constant. To specify IEEE 754 double-precision floating point
values, the constant begins with 0d or 0D followed by 16 hex digits. To specify IEEE 754
single-precision floating point values, the constant begins with 0f or 0F followed by 8 hex
digits.

<span></span>0[fF]{hexdigit}{8} // single-precision floating point
0[dD]{hexdigit}{16} // double-precision floating point

Example

<span></span>mov.f32 $f3, 0F3f800000; // 1.0

4.5.3. Predicate Constants

In PTX, integer constants may be used as predicates. For predicate-type data initializers and
instruction operands, integer constants are interpreted as in C, i.e., zero values are False and
non-zero values are True.

4.5.4. Constant Expressions

In PTX, constant expressions are formed using operators as in C and are evaluated using rules
similar to those in C, but simplified by restricting types and sizes, removing most casts, and
defining full semantics to eliminate cases where expression evaluation in C is implementation
dependent.

Constant expressions are formed from constant literals, unary plus and minus, basic arithmetic
operators (addition, subtraction, multiplication, division), comparison operators, the conditional
ternary operator ( ?: ), and parentheses. Integer constant expressions also allow unary logical
negation (!), bitwise complement (~), remainder (%), shift operators (<< and
>>), bit-type operators (&, |, and ^), and logical operators (&&, ||).

Constant expressions in PTX do not support casts between integer and floating-point.

Constant expressions are evaluated using the same operator precedence as
in C. Table 4 gives operator precedence and
associativity. Operator precedence is highest for unary operators and decreases with each line in
the chart. Operators on the same line have the same precedence and are evaluated right-to-left for
unary operators and left-to-right for binary operators.

Table 4 Operator Precedence

Kind

Operator Symbols

Operator Names

A

[… truncated 1348977 chars …]